Developer documentation for access handler (#60)
common-fate/glide: docs/access-handler/providers.md

## Providers

The access handler uses a provider framework which allows new services to be integrated easily by implementing a specific interface.

### Adding a provider

> Providers are defined in accesshandler/pkg/providers if this provider is for a service which may have multiple possible providers, create a parent folder and
> then create a specific folder for your new provider. E.g aws/sso or azure/ad otherwise, a single folder is ok e.g okta

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Providers are defined in accesshandler/pkg/providers if this provider is for a service which may have multiple possible providers, create a parent folder and then create a specific folder for your new provider. E.g aws/sso or azure/ad otherwise, a single folder is ok e.g okta
```

> One of the simplest ways to get started is to copy an existing provider and update the api calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the simplest ways to get started is to copy an existing provider and update the API calls.
```

> A provider should have the following files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A provider should have the following files:
```

```
accesshandler
 ┗ pkg
   ┗ providers
     ┗ okta
       ┣ 📜 access.go
       ┣ 📜 errors.go
       ┣ 📜 okta_test.go
       ┣ 📜 okta.go
       ┣ 📜 options.go
       ┗ 📜 validate.go
```

### access.go

> Should contain an implementation for the accessor interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file should contain an implementation for the accessor interface.
```

```go
type Accessor interface {
	// Grant the access.
	Grant(ctx context.Context, subject string, args []byte) error

	// Revoke the access.
	Revoke(ctx context.Context, subject string, args []byte) error
}
```

> It should also contain a struct `Args` always call this `Args` by convention.
> Args defines what is being requested when granting access. for example, in Okta, a groupId is requested. Args should contain all the
> parameters required by your provider implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It should also contain a struct `Args` always call this `Args` by convention. Args defines what is being requested when granting access. For example, in Okta, a `groupId` is requested. Args should contain all the parameters required by your provider implementation.
```

> Args must define both `json` and `jsonschema` tags there is some automation which happens whereby the Args struct is used to dynamically render part of the Create Access Rule form in the frontend. This allows flexibility when creating new providers because the frontend does not need to be updated to work with a new provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Args` struct must define both `json` and `jsonschema` tags. There is some automation happening whereby the `Args` struct is used to dynamically render part of the `Create Access Rule` form in the frontend. This allows flexibility when creating new providers as it means the frontend does not need to be updated to work with a new provider.
```

```
type Args struct {
	GroupID string `json:"groupId" jsonschema:"title=Group"`
}
```

> The Grant and Revoke interface provides `args []byte` which will be a serialised json string. It can be unmarshalled into the Args type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Grant` and `Revoke` interface provides `args []byte` which will be a serialised json string. It can be unmarshalled into the `Args` type.
```

```go
// Grant the access by calling the AWS SSO API.
func (p *Provider) Grant(ctx context.Context, subject string, args []byte) error {
	var a Args
	err := json.Unmarshal(args, &a)
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}
    ...
}
```

### errors.go

> Should contain named error declarations e.g

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file should contain named error declarations. For example:
```

```go
var ErrTargetNotExist error = errors.New("the traget does not exist")
```

### okta_test.go

> A test file containing testing that works with the testing framework, see [testing](testing.md) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a test file containing testing that works with the testing framework. See [testing](testing.md) for more information.
```

You may implement any other unit tests that as you see fit.

### okta.go

> This file, named after the provider, should contain a struct definition `Provider` by convention, always name this `Provider`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file is named after the provider and should contain a struct definition `Provider`. By convention, always name this `Provider`.
```

> The provider struct should contain unexported configuration params required to make API calls etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Provider` struct should contain unexported configuration params required to make API calls etc.
```

> As required, your provider may implement the Configer, Initer and ArgSchemarer interface full descriptions are available in the [source code](../../accesshandler/pkg/providers/providers.go). These optional interfaces are run to initialise your provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As required, your provider may implement the `Configer`, `Initer` and `ArgSchemarer` interfaces. Full descriptions are available in the [source code](../../accesshandler/pkg/providers/providers.go). These optional interfaces are run to initialise your provider.
```

> If implemented Config is called first, followed by Init. Find out more about genv and how to use it [here](genv.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If implemented, `Config` is called first, followed by `Init`. Find out more about genv and how to use it [here](genv.md).
```

> ArgSchema should return jsonSchema, this jsonSchema is used to render a dynamic form element in the frontend, We have been using `jsonschema.Reflect(&Args{})` however if you needed something more custom, you could implement that here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ArgSchema` should return `jsonSchema`. This `jsonSchema` is used to render a dynamic form element in the frontend. We have been using `jsonschema.Reflect(&Args{})` however if you needed something more custom, you could implement that here.
```

```go
type Configer interface {
	Config() genv.Config
}
type Initer interface {
	Init(ctx context.Context) error
}
type ArgSchemarer interface {
	ArgSchema() *jsonschema.Schema
}
```

```go
type Provider struct {
	client   *okta.Client
	orgURL   string
	apiToken string
}

func (o *Provider) Config() genv.Config {
	return genv.Config{
		genv.String("orgUrl", &o.orgURL, "the Okta organization URL"),
		genv.SecretString("apiToken", &o.apiToken, "the Okta API token"),
	}
}

// Init the Okta provider.
func (o *Provider) Init(ctx context.Context) error {
	zap.S().Infow("configuring okta client", "orgUrl", o.orgURL)

	_, client, err := okta.NewClient(ctx, okta.WithOrgUrl(o.orgURL), okta.WithToken(o.apiToken), okta.WithCache(false))
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}
	zap.S().Info("okta client configured")

	o.client = client
	return nil
}

// ArgSchema returns the schema for the Okta provider.
func (o *Provider) ArgSchema() *jsonschema.Schema {
	return jsonschema.Reflect(&Args{})
}
```

### options.go

> Options should contain an implementation of the ArgOptioner interface. This interface accepts an arg key and the response should be the options for that arg. The args are defined in the `Args` struct in access.go

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The options file should contain an implementation of the `ArgOptioner` interface. This interface accepts an arg key and the response should be the options for that arg. The args are defined in the `Args` struct in access.go
```

> The Options type is a label value pair which is rendered in the frontend based on the arg schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Options` type is a label value pair which is rendered in the frontend based on the arg schema.
```

```go
type ArgOptioner interface {
	Options(ctx context.Context, arg string) ([]types.Option, error)
}

```

### validate.go

> Validate contains an implementation of the Validator interface. This interface provides args, which is serialised json object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The validate file contains an implementation of the `Validator` interface. This interface provides args, which is serialised json object.
```
